strike strike strike everywhere you turn
you are seeing strikes you are seeing
disgruntled employees you are looking
around the world and seeing the same
information but why is this happening
it's all connected to one Central Point
and we're going to bring that up today
in this video we are going to look at
what's happening and then we're going to
understand why and then we'll talk about
what you the individual can do sound
good let's begin here we have it right
now private pay Rose 89,000 in September
far below
expectations they were expecting things
to be so much better and no they were
not of course they're not you've got
problems structurally fundamentally that
are not going to be resolved simply by
you know giving one or the other you
know let's throw some cash here let's
throw some cash there that doesn't fix
the problem there's something else going
on well right now you have healthcare
workers picking picketing outside US
hospitals in multiple States kicking off
a 3ay strike here we have more than
75,000 workers at hundreds of Kaiser
permanent Health Facilities across the
US this is going on but we've seen it in
many other places it's not just this one
example yes we had the UPS we had the
United Auto Workers one after the other
and what is the deal why is this
happening well you probably have seen it
yourself if you've been on this channel
but there was a big change over the last
let's say decade plus to what we're
seeing today and what is that do you
know I think you do it is absolutely the
easy monetary policy going away and so
what we have is this
unbelievable uh rise in debt that has
been going on debt in in terms of the
total number of debt but actually the um
interest payments and so when you have
that when you're more of the money
whether it's for an individual a
corporation doesn't matter when we have
more money going to interest it's not
going to productive means and so that
robs the real economy so your friendly
neighborhood you know restaurant let's
say is not getting the money it did
before because it was now going to debt
repayment and do you see how that could
slow things down well there's more to it
than that right now it is very clear
that the economy is much weaker than we
are being told and I've got some
information on that you could see higher
rates have clearly there's no question
it is a negative impact on the economy
as a whole you increase interest rates
you slow things down that's what's
needed because the inflation was too hot
but still stocks are near a record high
real estate is near a record high what
they are doing now is not nearly enough
to actually slow real inflation down
meaningfully Le uh less available
disposable income creating that slowdown
effect okay so we're seeing that going
on right now the share of us adults with
decreasing incomes has ticked higher in
recent weeks another sign that the labor
market is slowly cooling you're not
going to see that necessarily in the
unemployment rate although I do have one
statistic if we get unemployment to fall
below 4% check and then it rises above
4% let's say I guess the
4.1% historically every single time that
means we enter a recession so it has to
fall below 4% come up above 4% a
recession follows and where are we right
now we're inching closer even on their
own u3 unemployment statistic I mean
that's the most manipulated one and yet
that's where we're at okay so we'll see
if it happens and again yes that's just
another indicator or you know we're
looking at these things I get it that's
not the be all end all is one thing but
it's very accurate it's like the yield
curve it just happens to be very
accurate whether you want to focus on it
or not anyway here we go and you have
the pole pointed to a Slowdown in
business activity with the share of
workers who reported working over 35
hours Falling to
46.7% lowest since 2021 and so a lot of
people they want to be working full-time
they want to be getting more hours but
they're not and so yes they're employed
but they're not getting the income
that's all ultimately what it comes down
to look these numbers they mean a 46%
22% it it doesn't matter okay that's
going to change tomorrow you look at
these stats it's different tomorrow
what's what important is that people
have less money than they did before
less disposable income less that can
come towards you the business you work
for maybe it's your own business
whatever the case may be if there's less
money floating around less liquidity
less can go towards you one way shape or
form all right you could see more
Canadians are in the middle of a
financial stress emergency as they
struggle to keep their heads above water
amid High inflation and interest rates
the number of people under Financial
stress has grown 20% over the last year
making up 37% of those with jobs you've
got a problem that's going on in Canada
obviously this was very easy to see it
coming when you've got an extreme
circumstance with the real estate and
then gasoline was poured on that fire
through 2020 people are struggling
people making $200,000 plus are
struggling in Canada right now and this
will not let up anytime soon so you got
to be aware of that what do we do we are
in an inflationary world and that's
where we're headed towards more of can
you believe that that's the deal so I
want to show you some other things I'm
just trying to show you yeah it's the US
it's Canada it's UK it's
everywhere let's talk about that what
about this mortgage demand drops to the
lowest level since 1996 as interest
rates head towards 8 %c it's not
something that should surprise anybody
more mortgage applications are being
rejected for insufficient income wow
here we go it's starting to happen now
this is good because it would slow
things down we need everything to slow
down except for wages um however we are
in you know encountering a very big
issue at this time people are waiting
for those interest rate cuts to come I'm
just not sure they're going to come fast
enough all right that's the issue one in
five student loan borrowers are at risk
of struggling when payments resume which
is right now and of course we don't know
how this you know too many steps in the
way but I can tell you right now that
people are hoping they're on this list
and that is the government cancelling $9
billion in student debt for $1
125,000 borrowers uh they you know I
look through that it's people with
disabilities it's people with you know
some sort of hardship and so uh they're
canceling that the 9 billion though on
top of the rest of this of course means
that uh the average individual the
taxpayer will be paying that right it's
not as if it just disappears somebody's
got to pay the bill and so that means
that there's more on top of the deficit
the debts uh that are rising
considerably it looks like for a lot of
people they're just going to have to
deal with it now or they're going to
have to deal with it later but that's
the world we're in right here today us
effective rate of interest Mortgage Debt
outstanding just looking at the
comparison between mortgage rates um and
just trying to see that the amount of
debt I think just incredible there's no
question um but in general you got a
higher level of a higher level of um you
know the expense and so that means that
people are putting more towards that
instead of what I would call productive
use and those are the mortgage
applications declining as well okay so
you get the point I think it is pretty
clear but when you add on top of that
the factor of OPEC and what they have
said basically we are not going to go
off of our plan to keep the production
cuts and so what does that mean that
means less Supply potentially keeping
prices of oil elevated that means your
gasoline prices that means your
transportation costs are going to remain
higher for longer and so all of these
things point to a Slowdown and yet
shelter and yet energy and food prices
and everything else could remain
elevated what does that mean for you
what can you possibly do well you've got
to take action today there are a few
things right here that I'll mention but
there are a thousand more just the point
is take action take your foot step and
make that happen that's really what I do
in my personal life whenever I'm
struggling with something whenever I'm
trying to get somewhere when I started
my businesses I didn't know I didn't
have somebody to to ask I didn't I don't
know I didn't know what to do but I just
all right let's do it and I just went
head first into it made a lot of
mistakes bouncing off the walls but
eventually you know going straight
bouncing off here bouncing off there but
I made it I made it to where I need it
to be and that's because I am Relentless
are you Relentless are you Relentless
let me know sell to people and um work
to build a business that operates in any
condition so no matter what the
circumstances are there are businesses
that just operate maybe they're not as
good or maybe they're doing even better
during the difficult times and you've
got to be that person that goes and does
that that takes that takes a lot of work
I understand look for yield producing
assets to make up for inflation and so
during these times a lot of people are
just sitting on their hands and they're
kind of worried about what should I do
well there are assets out there right
now that could give you some of the
yield on some maybe I'm not saying you
throw everything in but you don't want
to be losing out to inflation too much
it's been going on for a couple years
now right price of oil oil is a must
watch watch the price of oil you're
going to know what's going in on in the
economy if it gets too high that creates
another slowdown and generally
businesses are watching the price of oil
too Transportation costs everything is
connected with that so pay attention
closely I'll show you here on the
channel of course but in your own time
definitely do so as well so um before we
get on this if you haven't already I
mean I just don't know why but you got
to hit that Thumbs Up Button clicking
that literally just clicking one button
is going to help this Channel and also
others out there who need to know about
this channel so I do appreciate that
very much if you're like what do I do I
don't know I just can't figure it out
you've got to get some advice and I
can't give Financial advice but that's
why I have hooked up with this company
and they do that you get it for free
that's the crazy part you get a 45
minute call for free free with money
pickle if you're interested in that the
link is in the description I put all the
information you need to know including
this little video here just click on it
watch it see what you think I
specifically spoke to uh one of the top
guys there and uh we're in Conant
communication just I'm just constantly
looking for feedback as well okay so you
give me the feedback let me know how it
went and I want to hear from you
okay here we go um comment of the day I
want to thank you for this um protect
your assets truth crew yes that's right
you got to protect yourself how do you
do so you've got to make sure you know
where all your income is coming and
you've got to do these things like I
talk about Encompass my free program
where you the individual are going out
there and actively number one investing
in yourself every single day I'm I'm you
know reading or audio books I do what I
can that's number one because I'm going
to constantly learn about new things and
yeah it happens to be a business expense
at the second thing you got to do is
you've got to understand where your
money is being kept is it in the right
place well you tell me all right I want
to thank you for being here today you
know U just one thing on the way out you
definitely want to let me know what you
think okay let me know what you think
very important stuff to share what you
believe is going on inside this economy
I want to know and hopefully I can
feature you in the comment of the day
I'll see you in the next one take care